4-UiS/cryptography/assignment2/README.md, before:

# Getting started

```{shell}
cd src
pip3 install pycryptodome Pillow
./test.sh
./demo.sh
```

Pycryptodome is a Python package implementing AES ciphers used it in `cipher.py`. Pillow is an image library used to create bitmaps of the random numbers generated by `bbs.py`.


# Directory structure
```
.  
├── README.md  
├── report.pdf  
└── src  
    ├── bbs.py  
    ├── cipher.py  
    ├── demo.sh  
    ├── files  
    │   ├── 2048-bit MODP Group  
    │   │   ├── generator.txt  
    │   │   ├── prime.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_xA.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_xB.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_yA.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_yB.txt  
    │   │   └── test_Z.txt  
    │   └── really_secret_file.txt  
    ├── keygen.py  
    └── test.sh  
```

# Files

- `README.pdf` : this file
- `report.pdf` : report of the assignment

- `src/` : the source code directory
    - `bbs.py` : Python implementation of the Blum Blum Shub PRNG
    - `cipher.py` : Python implementation of AES encryption/decryption
    - `keygen.py` : Python implementation of the Diffie-Hellman key exchange scheme

    - `files/` : a directory containing files used by the different tools
        - `really_secret_file.txt` : the file Alice wishes to send to Bob without disclosing its contents
        - `2048-bit MODP Group/` : the elements of a Diffie-Hellman group compliant with IETF standards found in [this RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5114)
    
    - `test.sh` : a shell script running implementation tests
    - `demo.sh` : a shell script providing a usecase example of how to use the tools implemented together

# User manual

All these manuals can be found using `python3 script_name.py --help`. To see usecase usage of these tools, take a look at the commands used in `demo.sh`.

## Diffie-Hellman manual

```{shell}
$ python3 keygen.py --help

usage: keygen.py [-h] --mode {generate,merge,test} [--prime PRIME]
                 [--root ROOT] [--secret SECRET] [--verbose] [--output OUTPUT]
                 [--public PUBLIC]

Generate public and private keys with the Diffie-Hellmann algorithm

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --mode {generate,merge,test}
                        Generate a public key, compute a shared private key,
                        or test program
  --prime PRIME         Prime used (hex or decimal) for key generation
  --root ROOT           Primitive root (hex or decimal) used for key
                        generation
  --secret SECRET       Private key (hex or decimal) used for key generation
  --verbose             Display parameters used for key generation
  --output OUTPUT       File to which the public key is written (standard
                        ouput if not specified)
  --public PUBLIC       Public key (hex or decimal) to be merged with the
                        private key
```

## Blum Blum Shub manual

```{shell}
$ python3 bbs.py --help

usage: bbs.py [-h] --seed SEED [--size SIZE] [--output OUTPUT] [--verbose]

Generate a random number using Blum Blum Shub algorithm

optional arguments:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  --seed SEED      Seed used for random number generation
  --size SIZE      Size in bits of the generated number, 128 if not specified
  --output OUTPUT  File to which the random number is written
  --verbose        Display parameters used for key generation
```

## AES manual

```{shell}
$ python3 cipher.py --help

usage: cipher.py [-h] --mode {encrypt,decrypt} --key KEY --input INPUT
                 [--output OUTPUT] [--verbose]

Encrypt and decrypt data using AES

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --mode {encrypt,decrypt}
                        Encrypt or decrypt data
  --key KEY             The key used for encryption or decryption
  --input INPUT         Path to the file to encrypt or decrypt
  --output OUTPUT       Path to wich the encrypted or decrypted data is
                        written. If not specified, output is redirected to
                        stdout
  --verbose             Run in verbose mode
```

# Requirements

* Python 3.6 or above
* Pip 9.0.1 or above

Commit message:

Implement test cases for AES cipher

4-UiS/cryptography/assignment2/README.md, after:

# Getting started

```{shell}
cd src
pip3 install pycryptodome Pillow
./test.sh
./demo.sh
```

Pycryptodome is a Python package implementing AES ciphers used it in `cipher.py`. Pillow is an image library used to create bitmaps of the random numbers generated by `bbs.py`.


# Directory structure
```
.  
├── README.md  
├── report.pdf  
└── src  
    ├── bbs.py  
    ├── cipher.py  
    ├── demo.sh  
    ├── files  
    │   ├── 2048-bit MODP Group  
    │   │   ├── generator.txt  
    │   │   ├── prime.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_xA.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_xB.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_yA.txt  
    │   │   ├── test_yB.txt  
    │   │   └── test_Z.txt  
    │   └── really_secret_file.txt  
    ├── keygen.py  
    └── test.sh  
```

# Files

- `README.pdf` : this file
- `report.pdf` : report of the assignment

- `src/` : the source code directory
    - `bbs.py` : Python implementation of the Blum Blum Shub PRNG
    - `cipher.py` : Python implementation of AES encryption/decryption
    - `keygen.py` : Python implementation of the Diffie-Hellman key exchange scheme

    - `files/` : a directory containing files used by the different tools
        - `really_secret_file.txt` : the file Alice wishes to send to Bob without disclosing its contents
        - `2048-bit MODP Group/` : the elements of a Diffie-Hellman group compliant with IETF standards found in [this RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5114)
        - `AES test data/` : plaintext and ciphertext equivalents from [NIST example values](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/Cryptographic-Standards-and-Guidelines/documents/examples/AES_Core_All.pdf)
    
    - `test.sh` : a shell script running implementation tests
    - `demo.sh` : a shell script providing a usecase example of how to use the tools implemented together

# User manual

All these manuals can be found using `python3 script_name.py --help`. To see usecase usage of these tools, take a look at the commands used in `demo.sh`.

## Diffie-Hellman manual

```{shell}
$ python3 keygen.py --help

usage: keygen.py [-h] --mode {generate,merge,test} [--prime PRIME]
                 [--root ROOT] [--secret SECRET] [--verbose] [--output OUTPUT]
                 [--public PUBLIC]

Generate public and private keys with the Diffie-Hellmann algorithm

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --mode {generate,merge,test}
                        Generate a public key, compute a shared private key,
                        or test program
  --prime PRIME         Prime used (hex or decimal) for key generation
  --root ROOT           Primitive root (hex or decimal) used for key
                        generation
  --secret SECRET       Private key (hex or decimal) used for key generation
  --verbose             Display parameters used for key generation
  --output OUTPUT       File to which the public key is written (standard
                        ouput if not specified)
  --public PUBLIC       Public key (hex or decimal) to be merged with the
                        private key
```

## Blum Blum Shub manual

```{shell}
$ python3 bbs.py --help

usage: bbs.py [-h] --seed SEED [--size SIZE] [--output OUTPUT] [--verbose]

Generate a random number using Blum Blum Shub algorithm

optional arguments:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  --seed SEED      Seed used for random number generation
  --size SIZE      Size in bits of the generated number, 128 if not specified
  --output OUTPUT  File to which the random number is written
  --verbose        Display parameters used for key generation
```

## AES manual

```{shell}
$ python3 cipher.py --help

usage: cipher.py [-h] --mode {encrypt,decrypt} --key KEY --input INPUT
                 [--output OUTPUT] [--verbose]

Encrypt and decrypt data using AES

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --mode {encrypt,decrypt}
                        Encrypt or decrypt data
  --key KEY             The key used for encryption or decryption
  --input INPUT         Path to the file to encrypt or decrypt
  --output OUTPUT       Path to wich the encrypted or decrypted data is
                        written. If not specified, output is redirected to
                        stdout
  --verbose             Run in verbose mode
```

# Requirements

* Python 3.6 or above
* Pip 9.0.1 or above
